

# Networking

Networking allows containers to communicate with each other and the host system. Suppose we have a host machine(VM/EC2/laptop), on top of which we have installed Docker, and we have 2 containers running, c1 &c2.

## Scenario 1

Suppose we have 2 conatiners, c1(frontend) & c2(backend) wants to talk to each other. There has to be a networking way of how Container c1 can talk to container c2. 

Unlike VMs, where each app has its own OS, so they are completely isolated, containers are lightweight and dont have complete OS

Discussed in 1a. How C1 & C2 can talk to each other

## Scneario 2

We want complete isolation btw C1 and C2. 


Container networking helps us with taking care of both the scenarios.
Discussed in 1b. How C1 & C2 can be isolated.

# How a container talks to Host OS?

Suppose we have a container C1 running on host EC2. In the host by default, there is a network we have eth0, suppose 192.16.13.39

When we create a container, eth0 is created by default for any resource that we are creating(contianer or VM) by docker. Suppose eth0 created for cotnainer is 172.17.0.21

We can clearly see there is a subnet diff in both. if we try to ping from 172.17.0.21 to 192.16.13.39, we will see a networking error, as container cannot ping to our host.

# Bridge Networking in Docker

To solve this problem, what docker has done is that whenever docker creates a container, there is virtual ethernet, which basically is docker 0, as without virtual network a container cannot talk to host.

The docker0 bridge is created automatically when you install Docker on your host operating system. When you create a container, it connects to this docker0 bridge by default.

This helps container to communicate with host OS, and is known as BRIDGE Networking.

This is the default network in Docker, and its called bridge is because container has diff subnet, and host has diff subnet, but how container talk to your host by default is using a bridge, and this bridge is a virtual ethernet(veth).

[Host (EC2)] 192.16.13.39 (eth0)
      |
      | 
   [docker0] (Bridge)
      |
      |
 [veth pair]
      |
      |-- [Container (C1)] 172.17.0.21 (eth0)


Veth is docker0

If we delete Veth somehow, container can never talk to host. Since a container does not have complete O.S, app running on container with not be reachable over internet  if no bridge networking exists.

### Summary

- When Docker is installed on a host machine (like EC2 or a VM), it automatically creates a default bridge network called `docker0`.
- The `docker0` bridge facilitates communication between the host OS and any containers created by Docker.
- When a container is created, Docker also creates a virtual Ethernet pair (veth), which consists of two parts:
  - One part becomes `eth0` inside the container, allowing it to communicate on the network.
  - The other part connects to the `docker0` bridge, enabling communication between the container and the host.

The veth is not the only way, there are different networking options as well.  