
1. Install python. Use pip to install Django.
2. Install Django-admin . Django admin (similar to ansible galaxy) lays out a heirarchial structure of dir in which you can define all your work

We have created a application - python-web-app

For this we will write our Dockerfile

1. We will choose ubuntu as base image
2. We will create a wordir where we will be copying and storing the source code in folder called /app
3. Next we will copy the requirement.txt in our workding dir, which is /app. requirement.txt serve as dependency that are required to run the application
4. Then we copied the source code inside tha /app dir.

5. Since we have ubuntu as our base image, we need to install python on it. If it was alpine python image we would not have needed to do the same. Once python is involved, we will use pip command to install the dependencies mentioned in requirement.txt

6. ENTRYPOINT VS CMD - Both can serve as starting command when the container runs, but the diff is that ENTRYPOINT CANNOT be changed. 

    ENTRYPOINT [ "python3" ]
    Whenever we run a container, we cannot override override this value in our DOcker Image. CMD is something that is configurable.

    `CMD [ "manage.py", "runserver", "0.0.0.0:8000" ]`

We could have also written it like this in our Dockefile

    `CMD [ "python3", "manage.py", "runserver", "0.0.0.0:8000" ]` 
    
    - this is also fine, but if we dont want people to change the executable, then we have to pass it in ENTRYPOINT.

- CMD is configurable, thats why we have passed the port also. Suppose if a team is already using 8000 point, they will say that the contianer is running on 8000 port, and 8000 is already occupied. so to run this container, we have provided it in CMD as they can change it here 

- But we dont want them to change the executable, for eg to nodejs instead of python3. So we use ENTRYPOINT. 


- ENTRYPOINT will have non-overiddable values. If we dont want team to change anything in container, we will pass all in ENTRYPOINT

    ENTRYPOINT [ "python3", "manage.py", "runserver", "0.0.0.0:8000" ]

    Then port 8000 should be free, otherwise application will not run.


&& \ is used to combine multiple command in RUN together


# After docker build is successfull

docker build -t adminik/django-web-app:v1 .

```

docker images
REPOSITORY                    TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED              SIZE
adminik/django-web-app        v1        7ecd7b806884   About a minute ago   608MB
```

We will try to access it

Note - Django application will run inside my container, and our container has port 8000 that is exposed, since we are tying to access this application on our laptop/ec2/vm, and not on container, we have to do port mapping.

`docker run -p 8000:8000 -it 7ecd7b806884`