
Docker Architecture

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/43399466/217507877-212d3a60-143a-4a1d-ab79-4bb615cb4622.png


From docker client, we execute docker commands (docker build, docker pull, docker run), which are received by docker daemon, and are executed to create docker image and container, and using docker daemon, we can the image to docker registry.



Whenever we install docker, it means we are installing docker daemon. This is the heart of docker. If docker daemon goes down, docker will stop functioning.

# Installing docker on ubuntu EC2

sudo apt update
sudo apt install docker.io -y

! Note - grant acess to the user they want to use to interact with docker and run docker commands.

To grant access to your user to run the docker command, you should add the user to the Docker Linux group. Docker group is create by default when docker is installed.

    sudo usermod -aG docker ubuntu

### Understanding the terminology (Inspired from Docker Docs)

## Docker daemon

The Docker daemon (dockerd) listens for Docker API requests and manages Docker objects such as images, containers, networks, and volumes. A daemon can also communicate with other daemons to manage Docker services.

## Docker client

The Docker client (docker) is the primary way that many Docker users interact with Docker. When you use commands such as docker run, the client sends these commands to dockerd, which carries them out. The docker command uses the Docker API. The Docker client can communicate with more than one daemon.

## Docker Desktop

Docker Desktop is an easy-to-install application for your Mac, Windows or Linux environment that enables you to build and share containerized applications and microservices. Docker Desktop includes the Docker daemon (dockerd), the Docker client (docker), Docker Compose, Docker Content Trust, Kubernetes, and Credential Helper. For more information, see Docker Desktop.

## Docker registries

A Docker registry stores Docker images. Docker Hub is a public registry that anyone can use, and Docker is configured to look for images on Docker Hub by default. You can even run your own private registry.

When you use the docker pull or docker run commands, the required images are pulled from your configured registry. When you use the docker push command, your image is pushed to your configured registry. Docker objects

When you use Docker, you are creating and using images, containers, networks, volumes, plugins, and other objects. This section is a brief overview of some of those objects.

## Dockerfile

Dockerfile is a file where you provide the steps to build your Docker Image.

## Images

An image is a read-only template with instructions for creating a Docker container. Often, an image is based on another image, with some additional customization. For example, you may build an image which is based on the ubuntu image, but installs the Apache web server and your application, as well as the configuration details needed to make your application run.

You might create your own images or you might only use those created by others and published in a registry. To build your own image, you create a Dockerfile with a simple syntax for defining the steps needed to create the image and run it. Each instruction in a Dockerfile creates a layer in the image. When you change the Dockerfile and rebuild the image, only those layers which have changed are rebuilt. This is part of what makes images so lightweight, small, and fast, when compared to other virtualization technologies.


amitdhanik@Amits-MacBook-Air Docker % docker run hello-world  

Hello from Docker!
This message shows that your installation appears to be working correctly.


